=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

blip.bash - Bash Library for Indolent Programmers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 #!/bin/bash
 
 set -euo pipefail
 source /usr/lib/blip.bash
 
 main () {
     local name="$(get_gecos_name)"
     if get_user_confirmation "Is your name ${name:-(unknown)}?" ; then
         echo "Nice to meet you ${name:-mystery user}."
     else
         echo "I'll just call you $(get_username) then."
     fi
 }
 
 main "$@"

=head1 DESCRIPTION

B<blip> is a Bash Library for Indolent (lazy) Programmers. It is a bash script that
is intended to be sourced in as a library of common functions to aid development
of shell scripts.

This project is still in the early stages of development and is expected to
change. However, with the mantra release early, release often, in mind, it
is available in this early state to help solicit feedback and user input.

Please feel free to contact the author or offer patches to the source.

=head1 FUNCTIONS

=head2 abs ()

=head2 absolute ()

Alias for C<abs ()>.

=head2 append_if_not_present ()

=head2 get_date ()

=head2 get_file_age ()

=head2 get_free_disk_space ()

=head2 get_fs_mounts ()

=head2 get_gecos_info ()

=head2 get_gecos_name ()

=head2 get_max_length ()

=head2 get_string_characters ()

=head2 get_unixtime ()

=head2 get_user_confirmation ()

=head2 get_username ()

=head2 get_user_selection ()

=head2 is_abs_int ()

=head2 is_absolute_integer ()

Alias for C<is_abs_int ()>.

=head2 is_boolean ()

=head2 is_false ()

=head2 is_in_path ()

=head2 is_int ()

=head2 is_integer ()

Alias for C<is_int ()>.

=head2 is_true ()

=head2 is_word_in_string ()

=head2 to_lower ()

=head2 to_upper ()

=head2 url_exists "$URL"

Return C<0> I<(true)> if C<$URL> exists, as determined by a 2XX HTTP response
code. Otherwise returns C<1> I<(false)>.
Requires the C<curl> command to be present in the shell search path.

=head2 url_http_header "$URL"

Outputs (echos to C<STDOUT>) the full HTTP response headers returned by the remote
web server for C<$URL>.
Requires the C<curl> command to be present in the shell search path.

=head2 url_http_response_code "$URL"

Outputs (echos to C<STDOUT>) the HTTP response code returned by the remote
web server for C<$URL>.
Requires the C<curl> command to be present in the shell search path.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=head2 BLIP_ALLOW_FOREIGN_SHELLS

When set to C<1>, inhibits C<exit> functionality to abort operation
when B<blip> determines that it is not running inside a bash shell interpreter.

=head1 AUTHOR

Nicola Worthington <nicola@tfb.net>.

=head1 URLS

L<https://nicolaw.uk/blip>, L<https://github.com/neechbear/blip/>

=head1 SEE ALSO

<https://github.com/akesterson/cmdarg> - A pure bash library to
make argument parsing far less troublesome.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (c) 2016 Nicola Worthington.

This software is released under the MIT License.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

